.. highlight:: shell

============
Contributing
============

Contributions are welcome, and they are greatly appreciated! Every little bit
helps, and credit will always be given.

You can contribute in many ways:

Types of Contributions
----------------------

Report Bugs
~~~~~~~~~~~

Report bugs at https://github.com/whiskml/whisk/issues.

If you are reporting a bug, please include:

* Your operating system name and version.
* Any details about your local setup that might be helpful in troubleshooting.
* Detailed steps to reproduce the bug.

Fix Bugs
~~~~~~~~

Look through the GitHub issues for bugs. Anything tagged with "bug" and "help
wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

Implement Features
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Look through the GitHub issues for features. Anything tagged with "enhancement"
and "help wanted" is open to whoever wants to implement it.

Write Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

whisk could always use more documentation, whether as part of the
official whisk docs, in docstrings, or even on the web in blog posts,
articles, and such.

Submit Feedback
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The best way to send feedback is to file an issue at https://github.com/whiskml/whisk/issues.

If you are proposing a feature:

* Explain in detail how it would work.
* Keep the scope as narrow as possible, to make it easier to implement.
* Remember that this is a volunteer-driven project, and that contributions
  are welcome :)

Get Started!
------------

Ready to contribute? Here's how to set up `whisk` for local development.

1. Fork the `whisk` repo on GitHub.
2. Clone your fork locally::

    $ git clone git@github.com:your_name_here/whisk.git

3. Install your local copy into a venv. This is how you set up your fork for local development::

    $ cd whisk/
    $ python3 -m venv venv
    $ source venv/bin/activate
    $ python setup.py develop
    $ pip install -r requirements_dev.txt

4. Create a branch for local development::

    $ git checkout -b name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

   Now you can make your changes locally.

5. When you're done making changes, check that your changes pass flake8 and the
   tests, including testing other Python versions with tox::

    $ flake8 whisk tests
    $ pytest -s --ignore=whisk/template
    $ tox

6. Commit your changes and push your branch to GitHub::

    $ git add .
    $ git commit -m "Your detailed description of your changes."
    $ git push origin name-of-your-bugfix-or-feature

7. Submit a pull request through the GitHub website.

Creating a demo project
-----------------------

To create a demo project from your local fork of whisk:

1. Set the following environment variables:

    PROJECT_DEMO_DIR # The directory where the demo project will be created
    PROJECT_DEMO_NAME # The name of the project

2. Then run the make task:

    $ make create-demo

`make create-demo` deletes the existing demo project (if it exists) and creates a new project.

Pull Request Guidelines
-----------------------

Before you submit a pull request, check that it meets these guidelines:

1. The pull request should include tests.
2. If the pull request adds functionality, the docs should be updated. Put
   your new functionality into a function with a docstring, and add the
   feature to the list in README.rst.
3. The pull request should work for Python 3.6, 3.7 and 3.8, and for PyPy. Check
   https://app.circleci.com/pipelines/github/whisk-ml/whisk
   and make sure that the tests pass for all supported Python versions.

Tips
----

To run a subset of tests::

    $ pytest tests/test_whisk.py

Testing the source code vs. the package
---------------------------------------

When running `pytest`, you are testing the source code in the current `venv`. When running `tox`, you are testing the package generated by `python setup.py sdist`. It's important to run `tox` as it runs test against the package other users will install. `tox` can fail even if `pytest` succeeds because of an incorrect `MANIFEST.in` file or missing dependencies within the `setup.py` `install_requires` argument.

Deploying
---------

Make sure all your changes are committed (including an entry in HISTORY.rst).
Then run::

    $ bump2version patch # possible: major / minor / patch
    $ git push
    $ git push --tags

CircleCI will then deploy to PyPI if tests pass.

If doing a small patch, you can just run:

    $ make bump-push

CI Setup - Required environment variables
----------------

GIT_AUTHOR_EMAIL
GIT_AUTHOR_NAME
GIT_COMMITTER_EMAIL
GIT_COMMITTER_NAME
PYPI_PASSWORD
PYPI_USERNAME
